# Processes and signals

## PID
A PID (i.e., process identification number) is an identification number that is automatically assigned to each process when it is created on a Unix-like operating system.

A process is an executing (i.e., running) instance of a program. Each process is guaranteed a unique PID, which is always a non-negative integer.

The process init is the only process that will always have the same PID on any session and on any system, and that PID is 1. This is because init is always the first process on the system and is the ancestor of all other processes.

## SIGNALS
What is a signal? Signals are software interrupts.

A robust program need to handle signals. This is because signals are a way to deliver asynchronous events to the application.

A user hitting ctrl+c, a process sending a signal to kill another process etc are all such cases where a process needs to do signal handling.

When the signal occurs, the process has to tell the kernel what to do with it.  There can be three options through which a signal can be disposed :

- The signal can be ignored. By ignoring we mean that nothing will be done when signal occurs. Most of the signals can be ignored but signals generated by hardware exceptions like divide by zero, if ignored can have weird consequences. Also, a couple of signals like SIGKILL and SIGSTOP cannot be ignored.
- The signal can be caught. When this option is chosen, then the process registers a function with kernel. This function is called by kernel when that signal occurs. If the signal is non fatal for the process then in that function the process can handle the signal properly or otherwise it can chose to terminate gracefully.
- Let the default action apply. Every signal has a default action. This could be process terminate, ignore etc.

As we already stated that two signals SIGKILL and SIGSTOP cannot be ignored. This is because these two signals provide a way for root user or the kernel to kill or stop any process in any situation .The default action of these signals is to terminate the process. Neither these signals can be caught nor can be ignored.

## Author
Andrés Sotelo - Holberton School Colombia
2021